README.md, before:

<div align=center>
  
<p>
  <img src="./images/logo/connect4.png" width="420">
</p>

[![Open Issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues/code-monk08/connect-four?style=for-the-badge&logo=github)](https://github.com/code-monk08/connect-four/issues)  [![Forks](https://img.shields.io/github/forks/code-monk08/connect-four?style=for-the-badge&logo=github)](https://github.com/code-monk08/connect-four/network/members)  [![Stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/code-monk08/connect-four?style=for-the-badge&logo=reverbnation)](https://github.com/code-monk08/connect-four/stargazers)  ![Maintained](https://img.shields.io/maintenance/yes/2019?style=for-the-badge&logo=github)  ![Made with Python](https://img.shields.io/badge/Made%20with-Python-blueviolet?style=for-the-badge&logo=python)  ![Open Source Love](https://img.shields.io/badge/Open%20Source-%E2%99%A5-red?style=for-the-badge&logo=open-source-initiative)  ![Built with Love](https://img.shields.io/badge/Built%20With-%E2%99%A5-critical?style=for-the-badge&logo=ko-fi)  [![Follow Me](https://img.shields.io/twitter/follow/codemonk08_?color=blue&label=Follow%20%40codemonk08_&logo=twitter&style=for-the-badge)](https://twitter.com/intent/follow?screen_name=codemonk08_)  [![Slack](https://img.shields.io/badge/Slack-Chat-informational?style=for-the-badge&logo=slack)](https://join.slack.com/t/connectfourgroup/shared_invite/enQtODMxNTAwNDY4NDU0LTZmYTZkMzJiNWQwZDk1YjhlZTEzY2VhMDNkNjVhOGIzNGIyNmYxODM4NWI5MjNjYmJlZjk4MjA4MzQ3MjZhNDg)

</div>

## :ledger: Index

- [About](#beginner-about)
- [Usage](#zap-usage)
  - [Installation](#electric_plug-installation)
  - [Commands](#package-commands)
- [File Structure](#file_folder-file-structure)
- [Guideline](#exclamation-guideline)  
- [Resources](#page_facing_up-resources)
- [Gallery](#camera-gallery)
- [Credit/Acknowledgment](#star2-creditacknowledgment)
- [License](#lock-license)

##  :beginner: About
Connect Four is a two-player connection game in which the players first choose a color and then take turns dropping one colored disc from the top into a seven-column, six-row vertically suspended grid. The pieces fall straight down, occupying the lowest available space within the column. The objective of the game is to be the first to form a horizontal, vertical, or diagonal line of four of one's own discs.

## :zap: Usage
To use this project.

###  :electric_plug: Installation
- Install dependencies & export environment variables.

```bash
$ sudo -H pip3 install -r requirements.txt
```
###  :package: Commands
- Start project using
```bash
$ python3 game.py
```

##  :file_folder: File Structure
- Add a file structure here with the basic details about files, below is current file structure.

```
.
├── assets.py
├── config.py
├── connect_game.py
├── events.py
├── game_board.py
├── game_data.py
├── game_renderer.py
├── game.py
├── images
│   ├── blackball91px.png
│   ├── logo
│   │   └── connect4.png
│   ├── redball90px.png
│   ├── screenshots
│   │   ├── 1.png
│   │   └── 2.gif
│   └── yellowball90px.png
├── LICENSE
├── README.md
├── requirements.txt
├── restart.sh
└── sounds
    ├── disc_drop_1.wav
    ├── disc_drop_2.wav
    └── event.ogg

4 directories, 21 files

```

| No | File Name          | Details 
|----|--------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| 1  | assets.py          | used for loading sound and image files in python.
| 2  | config.py          | contains game's configuration settings.
| 3  | connect_game.py    | Contains the ConnectGame class which holds the logic for the whole game.
| 4  | events.py          | Contains classes used to define and hold event data.
| 5  | game_board.py      | Contains the GameBoard data structure and methods which operate on it.
| 6  | game_data.py       | Contains the GameData class, which contains all of the data in the game.
| 7  | game_renderer.py   | Holds the GameRenderer class, which renders the game state using sound and graphics.
| 8  | game.py            | contains connect four game logic.
| 9  | images/            | contains image resources used in the game.
| 10 | images/logo        | contains logo used in the README.
| 11 | images/screenshots | contains game screenshots.
| 12 | LICENSE            | this project uses MIT License.
| 13 | requirements.txt   | contains all the dependencies used in the game.
| 14 | restart.sh         | bash script to relaunch the game once it is finished.
| 15 | sounds/            | contains sound resources used in the game.

- __Dependency Graph__

<p align="center">
  <img src="./images/game.svg" width="800">
</p>

##  :exclamation: Guideline

- __Code Style__

### `black`
In order to maintain the code style consistency across entire project I use a code formatter. I kindly suggest you to do the same whenever you push commits to this project. 

The python code formatter I chose is called Black. It is a great tool and it can be installed quickly by running 

```bash
sudo -H pip3 install black
```

or

```bash
python3.6 -m pip install black
```

It requires Python 3.6.0+ to run.

- __Usage__

```bash
black {source_file_or_directory}
```

For more details and available options, please check their [psf/black](https://github.com/psf/black).

### `isort`
I also use isort, it is a Python utility / library to sort imports alphabetically, and automatically separated into sections. It provides a command line utility which can be installed using.

```bash
sudo -H pip3 install isort 
```

- __Usage__

```bash
isort {source_file}.py
```

For more details and available options, please check their [timothycrosley/isort](https://github.com/timothycrosley/isort).


- __Close Issues__

Close issues using keywords: [how to ?](https://help.github.com/en/articles/closing-issues-using-keywords)

##  :page_facing_up: Resources
- [PyGame Documentation](https://www.pygame.org/docs/) : Pygame is a cross-platform set of Python modules designed for writing video games. It includes computer graphics and sound libraries designed to be used with the Python programming language.

##  :camera: Gallery
<p align="center">
  <img src="./images/screenshots/1.png" width="800">
</p>

<p align="center">
  <img src="./images/screenshots/2.gif" width="800">
</p>

## :star2: Credit/Acknowledgment
[![Contributors](https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/code-monk08/connect-four?style=for-the-badge)](https://github.com/code-monk08/connect-four/graphs/contributors)

##  :lock: License
[![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/code-monk08/connect-four?style=for-the-badge)](https://github.com/code-monk08/connect-four/blob/master/LICENSE)

Commit message:

Commit #1
Removed redundant double call to diagonal_win() in winning_move()

update logo

update logo

update logo

update logo

Resolved undo issue#13

Generalised some expressions

Generalised some expressions

Works for different board sizes

Added animation and changable board patterns

Update README.md

Create CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md

resolved col bug

Resolved issue#21

run black on the project

Minor bug fixes

Added animation and changable board pattern

Board pattern

Changed a comment

README.md, after:

<div align=center>
  
<p>
  <img src="./images/logo/c4.gif">
</p>

[![Open Issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues/code-monk08/connect-four?style=for-the-badge&logo=github)](https://github.com/code-monk08/connect-four/issues)  [![Forks](https://img.shields.io/github/forks/code-monk08/connect-four?style=for-the-badge&logo=github)](https://github.com/code-monk08/connect-four/network/members)  [![Stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/code-monk08/connect-four?style=for-the-badge&logo=reverbnation)](https://github.com/code-monk08/connect-four/stargazers)  ![Maintained](https://img.shields.io/maintenance/yes/2019?style=for-the-badge&logo=github)  ![Made with Python](https://img.shields.io/badge/Made%20with-Python-blueviolet?style=for-the-badge&logo=python)  ![Open Source Love](https://img.shields.io/badge/Open%20Source-%E2%99%A5-red?style=for-the-badge&logo=open-source-initiative)  ![Built with Love](https://img.shields.io/badge/Built%20With-%E2%99%A5-critical?style=for-the-badge&logo=ko-fi)  [![Follow Me](https://img.shields.io/twitter/follow/codemonk08_?color=blue&label=Follow%20%40codemonk08_&logo=twitter&style=for-the-badge)](https://twitter.com/intent/follow?screen_name=codemonk08_)  [![Slack](https://img.shields.io/badge/Slack-Chat-informational?style=for-the-badge&logo=slack)](https://join.slack.com/t/connectfourgroup/shared_invite/enQtODMxNTAwNDY4NDU0LTZmYTZkMzJiNWQwZDk1YjhlZTEzY2VhMDNkNjVhOGIzNGIyNmYxODM4NWI5MjNjYmJlZjk4MjA4MzQ3MjZhNDg)

</div>

## :ledger: Index

- [About](#beginner-about)
- [Features](#page_facing_up-features)
- [Usage](#zap-usage)
  - [Installation](#electric_plug-installation)
  - [Commands](#package-commands)
- [File Structure](#file_folder-file-structure)
- [Guideline](#exclamation-guideline)  
- [Resources](#page_facing_up-resources)
- [Gallery](#camera-gallery)
- [Credit/Acknowledgment](#star2-creditacknowledgment)
- [License](#lock-license)

##  :beginner: About
Connect Four is a two-player connection game in which the players first choose a color and then take turns dropping one colored disc from the top into a seven-column, six-row vertically suspended grid. The pieces fall straight down, occupying the lowest available space within the column. The objective of the game is to be the first to form a horizontal, vertical, or diagonal line of four of one's own discs.

##  :page_facing_up: Features
 - 2 player interactive game
 - Supports undo operation
 - Supports interactive game sounds
 - Ability to play with computer AI (in development phase)
 - Multiplayer on local network using sockets (in development phase)
 - Ability to customize game theme (in development phase)
 - Cross platform Linux, Windows, Mac (in development phase)

## :zap: Usage
To use this project.

###  :electric_plug: Installation
- Install dependencies & export environment variables.

```bash
$ sudo -H pip3 install -r requirements.txt
```
###  :package: Commands
- Start project using
```bash
$ python3 game.py
```

##  :file_folder: File Structure
- Add a file structure here with the basic details about files, below is current file structure.

```
.
├── assets.py
├── config.py
├── connect_game.py
├── events.py
├── game_board.py
├── game_data.py
├── game_renderer.py
├── game.py
├── images
│   ├── blackball91px.png
│   ├── logo
│   │   └── connect4.png
│   ├── redball90px.png
│   ├── screenshots
│   │   ├── 1.png
│   │   └── 2.gif
│   └── yellowball90px.png
├── LICENSE
├── README.md
├── requirements.txt
├── restart.sh
└── sounds
    ├── disc_drop_1.wav
    ├── disc_drop_2.wav
    └── event.ogg

4 directories, 21 files

```

| No | File Name          | Details 
|----|--------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| 1  | assets.py          | used for loading sound and image files in python.
| 2  | config.py          | contains game's configuration settings.
| 3  | connect_game.py    | Contains the ConnectGame class which holds the logic for the whole game.
| 4  | events.py          | Contains classes used to define and hold event data.
| 5  | game_board.py      | Contains the GameBoard data structure and methods which operate on it.
| 6  | game_data.py       | Contains the GameData class, which contains all of the data in the game.
| 7  | game_renderer.py   | Holds the GameRenderer class, which renders the game state using sound and graphics.
| 8  | game.py            | contains connect four game logic.
| 9  | images/            | contains image resources used in the game.
| 10 | images/logo        | contains logo used in the README.
| 11 | images/screenshots | contains game screenshots.
| 12 | LICENSE            | this project uses MIT License.
| 13 | requirements.txt   | contains all the dependencies used in the game.
| 14 | restart.sh         | bash script to relaunch the game once it is finished.
| 15 | sounds/            | contains sound resources used in the game.

- __Dependency Graph__

<p align="center">
  <img src="./images/game.svg" width="800">
</p>

##  :exclamation: Guideline

- __Code Style__

### `black`
In order to maintain the code style consistency across entire project I use a code formatter. I kindly suggest you to do the same whenever you push commits to this project. 

The python code formatter I chose is called Black. It is a great tool and it can be installed quickly by running 

```bash
sudo -H pip3 install black
```

or

```bash
python3.6 -m pip install black
```

It requires Python 3.6.0+ to run.

- __Usage__

```bash
black {source_file_or_directory}
```

For more details and available options, please check their [psf/black](https://github.com/psf/black).

### `isort`
I also use isort, it is a Python utility / library to sort imports alphabetically, and automatically separated into sections. It provides a command line utility which can be installed using.

```bash
sudo -H pip3 install isort 
```

- __Usage__

```bash
isort {source_file}.py
```

For more details and available options, please check their [timothycrosley/isort](https://github.com/timothycrosley/isort).


- __Close Issues__

Close issues using keywords: [how to ?](https://help.github.com/en/articles/closing-issues-using-keywords)

##  :page_facing_up: Resources
- [PyGame Documentation](https://www.pygame.org/docs/) : Pygame is a cross-platform set of Python modules designed for writing video games. It includes computer graphics and sound libraries designed to be used with the Python programming language.

##  :camera: Gallery
<p align="center">
  <img src="./images/screenshots/1.png" width="800">
</p>

<p align="center">
  <img src="./images/screenshots/2.gif" width="800">
</p>

## :star2: Credit/Acknowledgment
[![Contributors](https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/code-monk08/connect-four?style=for-the-badge)](https://github.com/code-monk08/connect-four/graphs/contributors)

##  :lock: License
[![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/code-monk08/connect-four?style=for-the-badge)](https://github.com/code-monk08/connect-four/blob/master/LICENSE)
